- Properties of Trie:
	1. Trie is a type of k-ary search tree used for storing and searching a specific key from a set
	2. It is used to store a large amount of strings
	3. Pattern matching can be done efficiently using tries
	4. Supports fast search operations, as we can search for a key by traversing down the tree from the root, and the search time is directly proportional to the length of the key. This makes tries an efficient data structure for searching for keys in a large dataset.
	5. Space-efficient because they store only the characters that are present in the keys, and not the entire key itself. This makes tries an ideal data structure for storing large dictionaries or lexicons.
	6. Widely used in applications that require auto-complete functionality, such as search engines or predictive text input.
	7. The maximum number of children of a node is equal to the size of the alphabet. Trie supports search, insert and delete operations in `O(L)` time where **L** is the length of the key.
- Cons of Trie:
  1. Needs a lot of memory for storing the strings. For each node we have too many node pointers(equal to number of characters of the alphabet).
  2. Ternary search tree can be used as it's alternative if space is concerned
- Trie vs HashTables:
  1.  Looking up data in a trie is faster in worst case as compared to hash tables.
  2. No collisions of different keys in a trie.
  3. In trie if single key is associated with more than one value then it resembles buckets in hash table.
  4. Representation of keys a string is complex. For example, representing floating point numbers using strings is really complicated in tries.
  5. Tries always take more space than hash tables.
- Implementation details:
  1. Each `TrieNode` will consist of unique characters and each character associated/linked with another `TrieNode`. Also there's a `isEndOfWord` boolean to specify whether the node is a end of word.
     ```java
     class TrieNode {
	    HashMap<Character, TrieNode> children;
	    boolean isEndOfWord;

		public TrieNode() {
			children = new HashMap<>();
			isEndOfWord = false;
		}
     }
```
   2. Trie will have a root which will initialised with a `TrieNode` when constructor called.
   3. `insert` at each point we'll check if the node contains key if yes extend the key otherwise add new node and mark at end the `isEndOfWord` flag to `true`.
   ```java
class Trie {
    TrieNode root;

    public Trie() {
        root = new TrieNode();
    }
    
    public void insert(String word) {
        TrieNode current = root;

        for (Character c : word.toCharArray()) {
            if (!current.children.containsKey(c)) {
                current.children.put(c, new TrieNode());
            }

            current = current.children.get(c);
        }

        current.isEndOfWord = true;
    }
    
    public boolean search(String word) {
        TrieNode node = searchPrefix(word);

        return node != null && node.isEndOfWord;
    }
    
    public boolean startsWith(String prefix) {
        TrieNode node = searchPrefix(prefix);

        return node != null;
    }

    private TrieNode searchPrefix(String prefix) {
        TrieNode current = root;
        for (Character c : prefix.toCharArray()) {
            if (!current.children.containsKey(c)) {
                return null;
            }

            current = current.children.get(c);
        }

        return current;
    }
}
```
