Editorial: https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-time-to-complete-trips/editorial/
Soln.: https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-time-to-complete-trips/submissions/910718385/
- Binary search is required to reduce the given time interval to be searched for
- No. of trips a bus can do in a interval can be measured by `given_time/bus_trip_interval`
- So we can identify that `given_time` will always be minimum 1 or max as `max_bus_trip_interval * total_trips`
- One by one we go for each interval and check for each interval time if the total_trips are getting attained or not.
- For e.g in case of time = `[3]` and total_trip = `15` since there is only one bus which has do to 15 trips the time taken would be 3 * 15 = 45 minimum
- Now if we increase the number of buses i.e times = `[3, 1]` and total_trip = `15` in 3 seconds bus 2 will do 3 trips and bus 1 will do 1 trip so 4 trips in 3 second. Thus it can in 12 seconds do 16 trips. So minimum time would be 12 seconds.
-   Time complexity: O(n log(mk))
    - Let n be the length of `time`, m be the upper limit of `totalTrips` and k be the maximum time taken by one trip.
    - We set the right boundary of the searching space as m⋅k. The searching space is cut by half each time, thus it takes O(log⁡(m⋅k)) steps to finish the binary search.
    - In each step, we iterate the entire array `time` to calculate the number of trips made in the given time, it takes O(n) time.
    -   To sum up, the time complexity is O(n⋅log⁡(m⋅k))
-   Space complexity: O(1)
    
    -   During the binary search, we only need to record the two boundaries `left` and `right`, and the number of trips made in each given time `mid`. Therefore the space complexity is O(1).